what do you love running the distance or
prefer short and intense sprint it's
important to warm up your body and
stretch post-workout to avoid muscle
strain so today we're at oxygen yoga and
fitness yaletown to meet owner and
instructor Kate Marshall to learn crime
stretches to avoid runner injury and to
keep you on your feet
so can you first tell me why it's so
important to warm up your body before
you go running number one is injury
prevention so you know often people
think of running is something that's low
impact but it truly is super high impact
on the body especially if you're doing
long distance so doing a dynamic stretch
before you go on your run is super
important to prevent any injury and then
any unnecessary tightness getting that
all out before you can truly enjoy your
run and get the most out of it okay and
how about after why is it so important
to have that stretch and after so same
thing that the repetition of those
muscles and you know whether it's
pounding the pavement and if you're back
you know you might feel a little
compression in your back and those
muscles just are used in the same
movement over and over and over again so
it's just very important after to
stretch them out really get that release
and then basically the day following
you're gonna be able to hit that run
again ten times harder versus feeling
the soreness all the stuff you would
feel if you didn't stretch it's common
that runners have tight muscles can you
tell me why and so the biggest thing is
the repetition of using those muscles so
when you're running it's consistently
usually hitting pavement da-da-da-da-da
so it basically causes those muscles to
shorten to become stronger absolutely
but just shortening become tight that's
usually why you'll find those times
so can you show me which muscles are
targeted when I go running absolutely so
you are going to have your plots so
everything just down the front here
wrapping around you're gonna have your
hamstrings lots of use their your glutes
and then just your hips or everything
just in your Center here you're flexors
running from your abs all the way down
into those quads and then wrapping all
the way around to your upper spine help
you show us some warm-up stretches yeah
awesome so we will hit some more up
searches the biggest thing is we want to
warm up the main muscle groups we also
want to make sure that this warm-up is
dynamic so we will do some stretches
that symbolize the movement of running
now that we've come back from a run we
want to wrap it up with some static
stretching so static stretching a little
bit different than dynamic we're just
taking those stretches and holding them
for a number of breaths a number of
minutes whatever you feel comfortable
with I would recommend minimum one
minute okay anywhere up to three of your
comfortable with that
hey kept me on my toes I feel limber
energized and ready to take flight more
than ever if you would like more
information on oxygen yoga and fitness
yaletown go to the link below first city
lights on Novus TV I'm Michelle Morton